Hello! Welcome to my text file explaining and detailing my active directory project.

To complete this project I was using this video tutorial by Josh Madakor on YouTube.
Link to Josh's video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MHsI8hJmggI&t=184s

I also completed a YouTube video myself showing off my final project and some explanation of what I did.
Link to my video: https://youtu.be/wWL3IsRIJp4

Table of contents:
1. Every project starts with research
2. VirtualBox and Microsoft Server/OS
3. Create and congigure domain controller
4. Starting domain controller
5. Start of the network
6. Installing AD/DS
7. Configuring RAS/NAT
8. Configuring DHCP
9. Creating Users
10. Creating a Client
11. All done

1. Every project starts with research

To start off the project I did some research so that I could fully understand what the project is all about. I first looked
into what active directory is. From now on I will refer to active directory as "AD". 

AD is a Microsoft service that is used to manage devices and resources in a Windows enviornment. It acts as a central database 
for all devices that are connected to that specific network. AD is the main controller of what happens on a Windows network. 
It allows the administrator to control/organize and implement access control for all of the devices on that network. This is an 
extremely important part for any network administrator or systems administrator. It allows them to view all traffic and access 
in one place making the oversight of a network much easier. 

It plays a massive role in security as well. AD allows for authenitcation of users, access control and permissions, auditing, 
logging, and a fantastic general control of a network. Any aspiring cybersecurity professional should play around with AD and 
experience using it, as it often can be a weak point in a network. Now with that explanation out of the way lets make our own 
home lab and set up AD.

2. VirtualBox and Microsoft Server/OS

First we need to download VirtualBox and the extension pack. To do this go here: https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads and
find the download for your specific machine. I am on Mac so that is what I chose. Then also download the extension pack. 

Once that is done now we need to download Windows 10. Use this link: https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/software-download/windows10ISO
and input the proper information on that first page. On the next page make sure to choose 64 bit and then download it somewhere
where it can be easily found. This download may take a little longer since it is a whole operating system. 

Next we need to download the Windows server 2019 found here: https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/evalcenter/download-windows-server-2019
Use the correct language and make sure to download the ISO in 64 bit. Put this in the same place as the Windows 10 we just downloaded. 
For me it was easiest to just create a new folder on my desktop to organize all of the files.

3. Create and configure domain controller

Now we need to open VirtualBox (VB) and create our first machine. In VB click new and then give it a name. I named this one
"DomainController" as this is what it will act as. Choose "Other Widows 64 bit" and click continue. Now we have to choose how much 
memory this machine will get. I gave mine 2048 mb of my ram which in total I have 8. Use the default settings and create the virtual 
machine. Now we need to go into the settings and change some things. Go to general>advanced and switch both drop down menus to 
bidirectional. Then switch to system>processor and give it more cpu power if you have enough on your machine. Lastly go to network 
and make sure that first adapter is attached to NAT. Then adapter two should be enabled and then attach that one to internal network 
and click the ok at the bottom to save the settings. 

4. Starting domain controller

Now open up the VM we just made and when it asks for a file make sure to give it the Microsoft Server ISO that we downloaded. Follow 
the installation on the VM and use the standard desktop experience. Then choose cutosm install on the next page and there is only one 
drive to install it on so use that one. Now everything will install and this will take a while but it will finish up on a screen where 
we need to give it a username and password. Give it a simple password that you will not forgetand then continue with the process. Now 
on the login screen go to the top and click input and there should be a choice that says input ctrl alt delete and click that. Now you 
are able to login to the VM using the password we made and continue this process. Now in the VM go back to the top and click devices. 
Click the choice that says insert guest additions CD image. Now find this in file explorer under this PC. Run the program that has 
amd64 at the end and then click through it all and then shut down the machine.

4. Start of network

After that reboot you should see some improved performance within the VM. Now we can start to build our network. First we should define
exactly what we want our network to look like. In Josh's video tutorial there is a nice visual at 12:36 but I will explain what our 
network looks like. 

Connected to the internet is the first of three NIC (Network Interface Cards). This first NIC, I will name NIC1, is connected
with our domain controller. This NIC1 will be the one using DHCP to allow dynamic IP addressing. Also connected to the domain controller
is NIC2. This NIC is internal and will be connecting the domain controller to the VMWare network. This will not use DHCP and will have
static addressing. That first enviornment is now finished. It is the first NIC1 connected to the internet and the domain controller, and
secondly, another NIC, NIC2, that is connecting to the VMWare network. 

Now on the other side of the VMWare network is our other environment. This contains one NIC, NIC3, which will use DHCP to get IP 
addressing for our second device named Client1. That is the last part of this simple lab environment. In total it is the domain 
controller with two NICs connecting to the internet and the VMWare network, and then a single client with one NIC that is on the other 
side of the VMWare network. Now onto how to set up the IP addressing.

5. Congigure domain controller NICs

Again, after the reboot, the performance should be a bit better. At the bottom right of the VM click the little icon that shows a monitor
and an ethernet cable. After clicking the network panel, it should bring you to the settings page. Click on "change adapter options" and
you should see two ethernet options. 

The first one is most likely the NIC that is connected to the internet. To confirm this you should click on it and view the details. 
If it already has a default gateway assigned to it then it means that it is NIC1 and it is already connected to the internet. The other 
one should not have any address for the default gateway and we will need to address this one manually. Rename each of them so you can 
tell them apart. 

Right click on the one without a gateway and click on properties. Once there  click on the IPv4 line. It should open a new menu allowing 
you to manually input some addresses. Now since we are inputing an address for an internal network we must have an IP address and subnet 
mask. I chose to do a very standard setup with more than enough subnetted addresses. If you are not sure of how to define an internal 
network and subnet please research into it, or watch my video that I made where I created networks using packet tracer. 

So under the IP address I am using 172.16.0.1 with a mask of 255.255.255.0. The default gateway portion will stay empty as our other NIC, 
NIC1, will already have that set up for us. Now lastly for a DNS server. Using AD it automatically sets its server as the DNS server so 
we can just re-input the IP address we used earlier or 127.0.0.1.

Now we can change the name of the PC. Click the start menu, find system, it should take you to the about page in settings. Find the
"rename PC button" click that and name it DomainController, or DC, or something of that sort. Now it should restart and go through
the process of the reboot and log back in.

6. Installing AD/DS

Next step is to install AD/DS. After we do that we will need to create a domain. Go to Windows server and click add roles and features.
Click next until the server selection page. Make sure that this PC is selected, it should be named whatever you just re-named it, and
click next. Once you get to the service roles make sure to select AD domain services, add features, then next. Click next until the final
screen has an install button. Click the install button and wait for the installation process to complete. 

Once it is all done click the flag with the caution sign. At the top click the link to promote this device to domain controller. A window 
should appear and first add a new forest and then put in a root domain name. I chose the name "mydomain.com". Click next and create a 
password. These next steps may take a second but just wait. Click next until the install button appears on the window. The VM should restart 
again. Log back in and now we can create our own domain admin account. Click on start, administrative tools, then AD users and computers. 
Once open we should see on the left panel the name we gave our root domain name. 

Righ click and select new, then organizational unit. Name it admin or something like that and then inside that unit click new, then user, 
and input your name. Then under that for the doamin name I used "a-myname" since that is similar to what is used in most environments. 
Give it a password and then the user should show up under that OU. Now we need to make this account the domain admin. Right click the name 
and go to properties, member of, and type in the name domain admins. Check the name and then click apply then ok. Now to use this we need 
to sign out and re-sign in. Make sure to click other user and use the credentials that you just made. Now we have made our own account in 
this domain.

7. Configuring RAS/NAT

Now we need to download RAS / NAT. RAS is Remote Access Server and NAT is Network Address Translation. These will allow the client that
we make, client1, to connect to the internet in its own private network. We install these on the domain controller so that we can control
the client while the client still has normal access to the internet. This is done in companies and universities so that their clients
are all on a private network and can be monitored and controled through one device. 

To start this we need to go to Windows Server again and click on add roles and features. Click next until we get to the add roles screen. 
This time we will add remote access, and routing. Then go next until the install pops up and wait for it to install. Once it finishes close 
the tab and we need to install NAT. Click tools at the top and find routing and remote access. Once there we need to right click and click 
configure. Click on the second option that says NAT and select the first option. It may give issues just restart and try again. Then finish 
the install and wait. When it is done make sure the DNS has a green circle and arrow and then make sure DNS and RAS are now on Windows server.

8. Configuring DHCP

DHCP comes next. Go back to add roles and continue to the server roles. Select DHCP and click next and then install and wait for it to
finish. Once it is done go to tools and find DHCP and now we need to define the scope. Right click the IPv4 and create new scope. Give it
a name, I used the IP range 172.16.0.100-200. Then make the start and ending addresses which would be 172.16.0.100 and then .200 for last
and the mask is 24 or 255.255.255.0. No exclusions so click next. Then for the lease we can use 8 days but if you were in a cafe you would
want much less because then as soon as someone gets an IP address it is used up for that entire lease time. Then we click yes we want to
configure. Add the IP address you used for configuring that second NIC which in my case was 172.16.0.1. Then we need to pick a DNS server
and this was already done when installing AD so the name we gave earlier is there. In my case it is mydomain.com. Then skip winserver and
click yes to activate scope. Now right click the dc.mydomain.com and authorize it and then refresh the IPv4. Now it should be green and
we have DHCP and DNS configured so urls and addressing is working as usual. Lastly go to configure this local server, find the on in the
right side, and click it and turn all of it off. Only do this in a lab and not in a production environment.

9. Creating Users

Now to make our enviornment more real we are going to create users with powershell. On the VM go to a browser and input the url:
https://github.com/joshmadakor1/AD_PS/archive/master.zip and download that file. Extract the contents into the desktop. This script
will generate all the users that we will need in our simulation lab. First open the names document and add your name at the top of
the list. 

Next, Click on start, go to window powershell, click on the ISE with nothing after it, run it as admin, click open, find the 
powershell script and open it. First, intput Set-ExecutionPolicy Unrestricted and click yes to all. Now the code can run once we
add what we need to. 

Now explaining the script. First we set the password for all the users to "Password1". Then instead of having to input all the names 
we have the second line grab the names from the names document. Next we convert the password from plaintext into an object that powershell 
can use. Line seven creates a new organizational unit in our AD named _USERS. Now into the loop. The loop runs for each of the users. The 
first line breaks the name into a first name, the second for the last name, and then the third line adds the first letter of the first name 
and adds it to the last name and puts that into an object named username. The next line just is an output that shows it is creating a user 
and shows the username. Now for the last block of code. This creates a new user for each of the names. It uses the password at the top, gets 
the first name, last name, and username from the names doc. The display name and and EmployeeID are just the username. The password never 
expires and then it inputs the user into the new OU that we created in a line earlier. 

Now to run the code. Go to the directory that the script is in. For me that is in the c drive, in user a-osirois, in the desktop, and its 
named PS_Script. To move to this I write cd C:\users\a-osirois\desktop\PS_Script. Once  I am there I can click the green play button at the 
top and then it should show that it is creating users.

10. Creating a Client

Last we have to do is create the internal client to complete our project. Now we have to step away from the domain controller VM
and create a new VM that will act as our client. Go into VirtualBox and create a new VM. Name it Client1, select windows 10 64 bit,
I gave mine 2048 gigabytes, and continue until it appears. Now go into the settings, then advanced, and turn clipboard on. Then go
to system, processor, give a little more if your PC can handle it for better performance. Then go to network, change NAT to internal,
this is done because we set up our DC to control the clients on an internal network and not use NAT which would just get its network
credentials and addresses using NAT in our local environment. 

Now start the VM and when it boots up it will ask for an ISO. Find the Windows10 ISO you downloaded and select that. Let it boot up now 
and we can start to set up windows. Start with next, then install, no product key, choose windows 10 pro, accept user agreement then next, 
then custom, only one drive is there so select that one and click next. Now it should say installing windows and just wait for it to finish. 
Now to configure the users. Select US or english, then click yes, skip, click I don't have internet, continue with limited setup, then login 
screen appears. I named mine user, skip the password, turn all the switches off, then accept, then not now, and it should take you to the 
windows home screen. Now we need to configure the IP. Go to the DC, into DHCP settings, find server options, right click, configure, find 
router and add the DC IP address which was 172.16.0.1. Now if we go to the client and ping a website it should work. Go to the command prompt 
in the client and type in ping www.google.com. If it is working you will get some replys. Now we know that our client is working and is going 
through the DC.

Now lets rename the Client. Right click the start menu, find system, scroll down to rename this pc (advanced). Click the last button
that says change, write the name you want (I chose Client1), then click domain and input mydomain.com or whatever you named the domain.
Now input the credentials of the account you made in the domain. Mine was osirois and password was Password1. Then it should say welcome
to the domain and then you must restart the client. Now go to the DC. Go to the DHCP settings. Find the scope, address leases, and look
at what is inside. You should see one lease that was made which is that client we just made. This means that everything is working as it
should. Now go to the start button and click AD users and computers. Go to mydomain.com and click computers. You again should see that the
client is added into there. Now lets try to login with some of the users we made. Go to the client, click other user, choose one user
account that was created with the Poweshell script. 

11. All Done!

Now you are done creating the environment! I hope you liked my tutorial and YT video. Now that you have a lab environment like this feel
free to add more clients as you like, try to secure the domain and add security features that would be similar to a real environment,
and maybe play around and find some vulnerabilities!
