Hello this is the text file that contains my process of setting up a SIEM using Microsoft Azure.

I used this video tutorial on youtube by Josh Madakor: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RoZeVbbZ0o0
Powershell script: https://github.com/joshmadakor1/Sentinel-Lab/blob/main/Custom_Security_Log_Exporter.ps1
API: https://ipgeolocation.io/

My video showing off the project is at the bottom of the file if you want to watch it. :-)

The goal of this is to create a Microsoft Sentinel, which is a cloud based SIEM, and give it data to collect. First we create 
a virtual machine that will act as our honeypot and then monitor attacks that come in from all over the world. In the end we 
should have a SIEM that collects data on attacks on our virtual machine and display that data in an interesting and easy
to read format.

The process starts with creating the virtual machine. Log onto Azure and start by clicking the "create a virtual machine" button. 
This machine is meant to be available to anyone on the internet. It will act as a honeypot to collect attack data. Create a 
resource group to put everything we do in the lab into one place. Give the virtual machine a name and choose a region for it to 
work in. I named mine "PotFullOfHoney" and chose the region "(US) West US 3". Next create a username and password that you will
not forget, as this will act as the login information for the virtual machine. After this move onto setting up the network 
portion of the virtual machine. Configure a new network security group and we need to delete the default inbound rule and 
create our own. Set destination port to "*" to allow all ports as destinations, protocol should be "any", make the priority 
low so anything 200 and below, and then give the rule a name. This will allow all web traffic to ping our machine so in theory, 
it should get attacked quite often giving us lots of data points in our SIEM.

While the virtual machine is deploying we need to create a log analytics workspace. Type that into the search bar and then 
create a new workspace. Add that workspace to your resource group and then give it a name for the lab. Click create and then 
allow that to deploy as well. Next we have to go into the Microsoft Cloud Defender settings and ensure that the server 
function is turned on as well as the CSPM. This will protect our log and the information contained inside of it. After this 
go back to the log analytics workspace and connect it to the virtual machine.

We then have to go and create the Microsoft Sentinel which is super simple. Type Sentinel into the search bar and then connect 
it to your log that you created in the step above. Let it run for a minute or two and you should be good to go. After this go 
into the virtual machine settings and find the public IP address. Next we need to start the "Remote Desktop Connection" from 
a windows device so we can go into the virtual machine and mess around with it. Paste the IP address into the input box that 
Remote Desktop Connection gives you. Then click more options and log into the machine with the credentials we specified earlier.
Make sure to incorrectly login at first so that you can have an event to look at. Once in the machine set up Edge, open Event 
Viewer and click on security. Here we can see our incorrect login with the event ID of 4625. Later in the lab we will actually
connect these events in an API so that it can show these incorrect logins on a international map. 

Next important step is to turn the firewall off on the virtual machine. This will allow the virtual machine to reply to ICMP 
requests from random users so people on the internet can easily find our machine. Open wf.msc in the virtual machine which will 
allow you to mess with the firewall settings. Click "windows defender firewall properties" and navigate to each of the profiles.
Make sure that each of them are turned off and then go to your personal computers command line and try to ping the virtual machine.
The ping should show that it is connecting to the device and recieving an echo back meaning that it is available to the internet
and "hackers" can access it. 

After this we need to get a microsoft powershell script to export the data to our API. I used this link at the top of this text
file to get that powershell script. Open powershell ise on your virtual machine and paste that code into a new file. Save this file
somewhere you can retreive it on your VM(virtual machine). To convert the IP addresses to longitude and latitude we collect we need 
to get our specific API key from the website we are going to use. The link at the top will direct you to that website. Sign up for a
free account and then use that API key that it gives you once the account set up is comeplete. Paste the API key into the second line
of that powershell code. Run the powershell code and now we have an active log of failed login attempts. To view this go to the
file viewer, this pc, windows(c:), then program data. It is hidden so make sure to click view hidden files in the file viewer. In
that file you should see a failed_rdp log. This is where you can see the geodata of the attacks.

Now we need to make a custom log in Azure to bring in that failed_rdp log. Go into tables in your Azure log and create a new (MMA)
custom log. Copy and paste the contents of that failed_rdp log onto a text file on your real computer and upload it to that custom
log that we created. In the collection paths, type in where the file is located on the virtual machine which should be in the c drive
programdata, failed_rdp.log. Give the custom log a name and then create it. Then go to logs in the analytics workspace and create 
a new query that runs that new custom log we made. It may take a while to see entries so just run the log and then wait a bit unitl
you see some output.

The next thing we have to do is extract the raw data and create fields for all of the data we want to collect. Now this part of the
lab took me the longest. Azure has updated and so the tutorial video does not work anymore as the custom fields function in the log
analytics workspace is no longer a function. I started to write my own code to extract the fields and create new custom ones but this
was taking me days at a time. Luckily, on the third day of writing my own code, I looked in the comments and saw a HERO posted his code 
that he made for this step. I input the code into my query and viola the fields were made and sorted like I wished. To test this I made 
a failed login attempt waited a couple minutes and then checked the query. It should show up and you can see your own failed login attempt.

After this is done go into Sentinel and set up a new workbook. Delete the widgets that are there and create a new query within this
workbook. Copy and paste the same script that is in the log analytics worksheet query and then run the query. The data should be nice
and neat looking with each field having the correct data within it. Next we want to vizualize the data in a world map. Use the vizualization
drop down menu and select the map entry. In the menu that pops up on the right hand side choose to either latitude/longitude or country/region
as your "Location Info using". I have had better accuracy and experience using the latitude/longitude. Scroll down that menu and make sure
that under each entry of the drop down menu has the correct field associated with it. Now save the map, give it a name, and save it to
your resource group. Thats it! Now we have a working map that will show failed login attempts for our virtual machine.

If you read this far thank you so much, I hope you enjoyed it. Below is the link to my YouTube video showing off the project.

My YouTube link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t3nyR81OSDU

One more thing. If you do create this yourself MAKE SURE to delete the resource group after you are done playing around with it as this can
eat up all of the free $200 you get with Azure. I forgot to do this and it spent an extra couple dollars which is not a big deal but if it
runs for months it could start charging you.
