This text file is documenting my journey through this Packet Tracer project. It is the first in a series of
Packet Tracer projects posted on gurutechnetworks.otombenard.com. This is where I am pulling these problems
from and the creator also posted videos detailing the projects. I also made a YouTube video showing off my
final product. The link is at the bottom of the file. Enjoy!

Link to this projects page: https://gurutechnetworks.otombenard.com/assetsProject/project1

The problem details: 
                    Operate seperately from HQ network
                    One router and one switch 
                    Three seperate departments 
                    Each department has its own VLAN
                    Each department must have its own wirless connection
                    Hosts obtain IPv4 addresses automatically
                    All devices on the network must be abe communicate with each other
                    ISP base network 192.168.1.0

Start by placing one router, one switch, three computers, and three printers. The printers and computers
represent the seperate departments. They also need wireless access points in each department so those
are added next. We then connect all the devices using a copper straight through wire. Next encompass
each department with a colored box to make it easier to recognize. Then label each of the departments
with whatever you would like to name them. Finally label them with their own VLANs.

Next IP addresses need to be added. First we need to subnet our network to determine how many bits each
of the departments needs. We have the space of 192.168.1.0 to work with and we have three departments to
subnet. Our subnet mask is 255.255.255.0/24 and we need to borrow two bits from the last octet. This is 
becausecthe number of subnets. If we had five subnets we would need to borrow an extra bit as borrwoing two 
bits is equal to 4 while three is equal to 8. The bits we borrow must be more or equal to the same amount 
of subnets that we need. After borrowing those bits our new subnet mask is 255.255.255.192/26. After determining 
this we now have the information we need to sucessfully subnet our network. 

To start our first subnet we need to determine the network ID and the broadcast ID. Once we get both of these
we will have the host range that is able to be used in each department. The first subnet will start with a
network ID of 192.168.1.0 as this is the first address available. The last address available in this subnet
is 192.168.1.63, so this will become our broadcast ID. The reason we have 64 available addresses in this first
subnet is because of the subnet mask we chose earlier. We borrowed the first two bits equaling 128, and 64 
respectively. This is equal to 192 and the total we have avaialable is 256. If you subtract those numbers you
get 64 leftover. This means that each of our subnets will have 64 avaiable addresses. Since the first address
is used for the network ID, and the last is used for the broadcast ID, we have a total of 62 avaiable host
addresses per subnet. The first subnets host range is 192.168.1.1-192.168.1.62. Our second subnet starts with
its network ID of 192.168.1.64 and ends with a broadcast ID of 192.168.1.127. Second subnet host range is
192.168.1.65-192.168.1.126. The third subnet starts with a network ID of 192.168.1.128 and ends in a broadcast
ID of 192.168.1.191. Third subnet host range is 192.168.1.129-192.168.1.190. Now we are able to impliment this
into our network.

Start by labeling each department with its subnet mask. Next we have to configure each of the VLANs. Click on
the switch, go to command line, use "en" to enable the switch, and use "config t" to start the configuring. Hover
over the connections going into the switch and determine the range. My first range is Fa0/2-Fa0/4. Go back to
the switch and use "int range" and append your interface range to accsess that interface range. Now access the
switch port acccess mode. Use "switchport mode access" to do so. Then type "switchport access vlan ___" with
the underscore being whatever you named the vlan. It should say it does not exist and it is creating a new
VLAN. Repeat the steps starting at "int range" for your other subnets. Finish it off with "do wr" and then
"exit". To check that it is all correct use "do sh start" and check that each interface is connected to the
correct VLAN. Now the VLANs are configured and we can move on.

Connect with the wireless access point in the first subnet. Go to config and then port 1. Give it a name and
select "WPA2-PSK" and give it a PSK pass phrase. Do this for each of the wireless access points. Next we need
to make sure that they can get IPv4 addresses automatically. To configure this we first go to the switch and
configure interface fa0/1 which is to the router. Enter "int fa0/1", "swithport mode trunk", and "do wr".
Now the configuring of the switch is done. Next is the router. Go to the router CLI and use "en" to enable
"config t" to enter configure mode, "int gig0/0" as this is the router interface, "no sh", and "do wr" to
turn off the default shutdown mode it is already in. If you go back you should see the arrows are turned green
if you did this correctly. 

We now need to create sub interfaces for each of the VLANs. To do this go into the router CLI. Make sure you
are in the (config) mode. Use "int gig0/0.100" to create the sub interface for the first VLAN. Next use
"encapsulation dot1Q 100" to encapsulate the VLAN in this new sub interface. Now we make the default gateway
for the subnet. Use "ip address ___ ---" with ___ being the first available IP address on that VLAN and --- 
being the subnet mask. For me that is 192.168.1.1 for the IP and 255.255.255.192 for the subnet mask. 
Finish this with "do wr". Rinse and repeat for every VLAN.

Now configure the DHCP server. This comes stock on CISCO routers so use "service dhcp" to activate it on the
router. Use "ip dhcp pool ___-Pool" with ___ being whatever name you want to give to your first VLAN. I am
using Department0. Now you are configuring that specific pool. Specify the network using "network ___ ---"
with ___ being the network ID of the first VLAN and --- being your subnet mask. Mine are 192.168.1.0 and
255.255.255.192. Use "default-router ___" with ___ being the first available IP in that VLAN. This defines
the default gateway for that VLAN. Then use "dns-server ___" with ___ being the default gateway you just
made for that VLAN. Finally give it a domain name using "domain-name ___" with ___ being the name you want
to give it. Mine is "Department0.com". Use "exit" and repeat for other VLANs. After finishing this make sure
to exit and use "do wr" to make the router write the configurations.

Lastly we configure the end devices. Click on the first PC in your first VLAN and use config. Click "DHCP"
and allow it some time to give it an IP address. Next go to the printer and click "FastEthernet0" and click
"DHCP" and allow it time to get an address. Do the same for each of the VLANs. 

Now we can test the network and ensure that each of the devices are acting the way they should be. This can
also confirm that we have wireless connection and communication between devices. I am using a smartphone in
VLAN 100, a laptop in VLAN 200, and a tablet in VLAN 300. Connect the smartphone by using the WIFI access
point name you gave under SSID and type in the passkey you set. You should see a wifi signal from the phone
now. Use the laptop now and turn it off. Take out the current module and put in a WPC module. This allows
wireless connection. Now do the same with the SSID and passkey and it should connect. Lastly use the tablet
and go to config. Do the same with the SSID and passkey. It should connect and now we can test. To test any
end device go to its command line and type "ping ___" with ___ being the IP address you wish to ping. It 
will fail first try and then it should give you a successful ping. 

Thats it! Now we have a network that meets all of the requirements listed above. I hope you enjoyed reading
and check out my YouTube video I made showing off my final product.

My YouTube link: https://youtu.be/aSnDuZFMZ6I
