This is a text file documenting my process completing this Packet Tracer project. This is the second project
relating to Packet Tracer and just like the first, it came from here: gurutechnetworks.otombenard.com. This 
is where I am finding these projects and I am using the video made about the project to aid my completion.
At the bottom of this file should be my YouTube video showing off my final product. This project is a step above
the first one and depicts a campus network. As a college student myself this project seemed super relevant for
me and I think that it will help me understand how the network here at Appalachian State is set up.

Link to project: https://gurutechnetworks.otombenard.com/assetsProject/project4

My YouTube video: https://youtu.be/BP5lk8hR6ho

Project requirements:
                    Main campus network with:
                        -Building A- departments: management, HR, finance, business
                        -Building B- departments: engineering/computing, art and design
                        -Building C- departments: student labs and IT, IT hosts the
                        university web servers and other servers
                        -No Building- email server hosted in the cloud
                    Smaller campus network with:
                        -Building 1- departments: health/science (mulitple floors: staff, student)
                    Configure all core network equipment and some end devices, ensure
                    end-end connectivity and access to all servers internal and external
                        -Each department has its own seperate IP network
                        -Switches configured with VLANs and security settings
                        -RIPv2 used for routing internally and static routing used
                        for the external server
                        -Devices in Building A aquire IP dynamically from a router-
                        based DHCP server

With all of the requirements defined lets start the project. Start with one main router and name it. Next
we need a layer three switch under the router. Give that a name and specify it is layer 3. After this each
department needs its own layer 2 switch. Place four of them and label each of them. Next we place the switches
for Building B. It needs two switches for both its departments. Place and label them. Lastly do this for
Building C. It has two departments so two switches and label them. Next important part is the email server.
It will need an extra router to connect this server with the main network. Without this extra router the 
server will be internal and it was explicitally stated in the requirements that it must be external. Place
the router and label it relating to the cloud. We will place and configure these later

Now we will focus on making the main campus network as this is the bulk of the work. Place one printer and
one PC for each of the departments excluding IT. I am labeling each of these but that is not required. The IT 
department gets one PC and two servers. Label one server for web and the other for file transfer. Lastly place
one other server next to the cloud router we placed in the last paragraph. Label it email server or something
along those lines. Now we need to connect all the devices. Connect the two routers first using a serial
connection. To do this first go into each router, turn it off, insert the "HWIC-2T" module, and turn it back
on. Now we have a serial port on each router. Connect with a serial wire and continue. Now we use a copper
straight through wire to connect the rest of the devices. Connect each end device to its respective switch and
then connect each switch to the layer three switch and finally connect the layer 3 switch to the router.

The branch campus is created next. Place one router, layer 3 switch, and two layer 2 switches. The two departments
are staff and students; they each get one pc and one printer. Label them and make it look pretty :). 

Now both branches are done setting up and now we need to configure each. Each department will get its own VLAN
and also its own IP network. For each department I used VLAN_, with _ being 10-100, and the networks 192.168._.0/24, 
with _ being 1-10. I chose /24 networks to give plenty room for extra devices and since it is commonly used.
The cloud enviornment gets its own network; 20.0.0.0/30 since it has less than 3 end devices. Also the two routers
get their own networks. I use 10.10.10.0/30 for the connection between main and branch campus. Then 10.10.10.4/30
for the connection between main campus and the cloud router. A /30 network has 2 available hosts which is perfect
since each of these networks has 2 end devices. 

Now that we know what IP to configure each department with, we can go into each switch and router to configure them.
First we turn on the routers. Go to the main campus router and configure each interface so it is open. Use "en" to
enable the router, "config t" to bring it into configure mode, "int ___" then "no sh" for each interface, the ___ is
each interface being used by the router. Our network has one gig interface, gig0/0, and two serial interfaces for each
of the other routers. Those are interfaces se0/1/0 and se0/1/1. After all three have been configured finish with
"do wr" so the router writes that configuration to memory. Configure the other two routers interfaces as needed. After
all router interfaces have been turned on we turn on the L3 switches. To do this click the L3 switch and insert the "AC
Power Supply" and wait a minute. The nodes on the connections should change to orange dots. 

We connected the routers using a Serial DCE which has a clock rate associated with it. To enable traffic to flow into the
cable we must set up this clock rate. Normally this comes with the manual and will specify the clock rate and how to
configure it, but since this is virtual we have to use what is shown in the video and do our own research. Find the
interfaces with the clocks next to them. Click the router and go into that interface. Once in the interface use 
"clock rate 64000" to set the clock rate and "do wr" to write the configuration. Now do it once more for the other
interface and you are all done.

Layer 2 switches are configured next. Each VLAN needs to be configured on each L2 switch. Start by "en" and "config t"
as we have been doing. Then "int range fa0/1-24" to configure all of its interfaces. "switchport access mode" to switch
to the correct mode, then "switchport access vlan __" with __ being the vlan you are configuring. Finish with "do wr" to
ensure the configuration is made and do this for each of the vlans. Next configure the L3 switch so it knows the vlans.
To do this enable and bring it to configure mode. "int __" then "switchport mode access" and then "switchport access
vlan __" with the __ for interface and vlan being the corresponding interface the vlan is connected with. For example
my vlan 10 is connected to the L3 switch on port gig1/0/9. Do this for every interface on both of the L3 switches. Make
sure that you finish each configuration with "do wr". 

Now that the switches have the vlans connected on the correct ports we need to make sure they can all communicate. To do
this we have to configure the L3 switch so it knows which port is the transport port. Find the port connected to the router
and then enter configuring shell for that port. Once there use "switchport mode trunk" and "do wr" to configure this
connenction. Now it should be configured correctly

We still need to configure the IP addresses for the routers and the cloud network. Get into the configure shell for each
interface use "ip address" and append to the end of that the IP address you made for that network and its subnet mask. Do 
this for each interface on all three of the routers so they all have an assigned IP address. Only do this for the interfaces
that are connected to routers. The only execption is the cloud enviornment. Give the server and the router an IP address
using the method described above. I used a 20.0.0.0/30 network for the cloud. The router IP configuration can be done for
the cloud router in the CLI but the server must be done statically. Go to the server, desktop, IP configuration, and then
give it the appropriate IP address, subnet mask, and default gateway. Try to ping the default gateway and if you get a
response you are good. Now everything should have an IP address that it can use.

Now we must configure the DHCP and interVLAN routing. Lets start with the branch campus router. Access the interface that
is connected to the L3 switch but at the end append it with .__ with the __ being the subnet. For example mine is on
interface gig0/0 so I used "int gig0/0.90" as the vlan I am configuring was vlan 90. Now we are in a sub interface for
that vlan. Next use "encapsulation dot1Q 90" to add the correct encapuslation, and then "ip address __ __" with the first
__ being the first available IP address in that vlan and the second __ being the subent mask. Mine is IP address 192.
168.9.1 with a subnet mask of 255.255.255.0. Do this for every vlan on the network and then finish with "do wr". Now
we can move onto enabling DHCP. Enter the configure shell and type in service dhcp. Then we need to create
a DHCP pool. Use "ip dhcp pool __--pool" with __ being the name of the department. Now in the dhcp configuring shell use
"network __ __" with the first blank being the network ID and the second the subnet mask. Use "default-router __" with
the __ being the default gateway for that network. Do the same again but switch default-router for dns-server. Exit 
that dhcp configuration shell and repeat for the other dhcp pool/pools. To test this go to a PC on one of the vlans
and try to get an IP using DHCP. If it gets one then you are all good!

Now we have to do this for the main campus. This will take a while and is quite tedious. Once it is all done you should
be able to go into the PCs and printers and turn on DHCP. They should all get an IP address and be able to communicate
with each other. To test this try to ping different devices. The last thing we need to do is configure the routing
protocol. Defined in the instructions we use RIPv2. We have three networks, the two vlans in the branch campus, and the
network between routers. Start by entering the configuration termminal and use "router rip" to configure the protocol.
Then "version 2" to specify the version. Now enter each network we have. Use "network __" with the __ being the network
ID that needs to be connected. Mine are 192.168.9.0, 192.168.10.0, and 10.10.10.0. Once all three are input use do wr.
Now we must do the same for the main campus router. Enter configuration terminal, enter rip version two using the commands
shown above. Then type in all ten networks, eight vlans, one connecting the main campus to branch, and one from cloud to
main campus. Once all are entered use do wr and we should be able to ping from main campus to branch campus. The final
thing we need to do is to configure RIPv2 on the cloud router. Once that is done we have full communication. All of the
requirements are met and our network is done.

I hope you enjoyed my explanation and here is the link to my YouTube video.

Link: https://youtu.be/BP5lk8hR6ho
