Hello this is the text file that contains my process of setting up a SIEM using Microsoft Azure.

I used this video tutorial on youtube by Josh Madakor: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RoZeVbbZ0o0

The goal of this is to create a Microsoft Sentinel, which is a cloud based SIEM, and give it data to collect. First we create a virtual machine 
that will act as our honeypot and then monitor attacks that come in from all over the world. In the end we should have a SIEM that collects data 
on attacks on our virtual machine and display that data in an interesting and easy to read format.

The process starts with creating the virtual machine. Log onto Azure and start by clicking the "create a virtual machine" button. This machine is
meant to be available to anyone on the internet. It will act as a honeypot to collect attack data. Create a resource group to put everything we do
in the lab into one place. Give the virtual machine a name and choose a region for it to work in. I named mine "PotFullOfHoney" and chose the region
"US) West US 3". Next create a username and password that you will not forget, as this will act as the login information for the virtual machine.
After this move onto setting up the network portion of the virtual machine. Configure a new network security group and we need to delete the default
inbound rule and create our own. Set destination port to "*" to allow all ports as destinations, protocol should be "any", make the priority low so
anything 200 and below, and then give the rule a name. This will allow all web traffic to ping our machine so in theory, it should get attacked quite 
often giving us lots of data points in our SIEM.

While the virtual machine is deploying we need to create a log analytics workspace. Type that into the search bar and then create a new workspace.
Add that workspace to your resource group and then give it a name for the lab. Click create and then allow that to deploy as well. Next we have to go
into the Microsoft Cloud Defender settings and ensure that the server function is turned on as well as the CSPM. This will protect our log
and the information contained inside of it. After this go back to the log analytics workspace and connect it to the virtual machine.

We then have to go and create the Microsoft Sentinel which is super simple. Type Sentinel into the search bar and then connect it to your log that you
created in the step above. Let it run for a minute or two and you should be good to go. After this go into the virtual machine settings and find the
public IP address. Next we need to start the "Remote Desktop Connection" from a windows device so we can go into the virtual machine and mess around
with it. Paste the IP address into the input box that Remote Desktop Connection gives you. Then click more options and log into the machine with the
credentials we specified earlier. Make sure to incorrectly login at first so that you can have an event to look at. Once in the machine set up Edge, 
open Event Viewer and click on security. Here we can see our incorrect login with the event ID of 4625. Video 15min
